# Privacy and Ethics

You’ll conduct research to learn more about security, privacy, ethics, and other social issues in computing. Then you’ll share your research findings to help people consider how these issues impact society.

Select a research focus from the choices below, and then follow the [research assignment instructions](../research-assignment.md).

## Research Focus 1

Research a real-world example of security and privacy issues related to the collection of personal data:

* What are the privacy concerns related to data collected or generated by technology?
* What are the personal and social impacts when sensitive data is exposed or misused?
* What are the safety, legal, and ethical obligations related to maintaining data privacy?
* What kinds of security lapses or threats can expose or misuse data?
* What kinds of security measures can help protect data?

Possible real-world examples might be related to:  internet privacy, identity theft, privacy of medical and genetic data, location tracking, surveillance technology, etc.

## Research Focus 2

Research a real-world example of ethical and social issues related to the use \(or misuse\) of computing technology:

* What is the issue?
* How and why does this issue occur?
* What are the personal and social impacts of this issue?
* What are the safety, legal, and ethical obligations related to preventing this issue?
* What design changes in technology might help prevent this issue?

Possible real-world examples might be related to:  intellectual property infringement, online harassment, internet or gaming addiction, biased data algorithms, misinformation campaigns, etc.

## Research Focus 3

Propose your own research into security, privacy, ethics, or other social issues in computing. Be sure to have your teacher approve your research questions.

